src/pages/pages/about/index.md, before:

---
title: "Services"
layout: page
path: "/services"
---

Alongside software development and data engineering,
I've worked in analytics, marketing, machine learning and cloud computing.
I love solving problems and I’m flexible enough to help you.

I perform contract, consulting or freelance engagements that help you and challenge me.
My experience extends to leading teams, technical architecture and product development.
Whilst I'm primarily a hands-on software developer and data engineer I'm happy taking on broader roles.

Contact me to discuss an engagement at [paul@tempered.works](mailto:paul@tempered.works).

## Availability

I'm working on a research and development project full-time with [Dunnhumby](https://www.dunnhumby.com/) until November 9th, 2018.

## Recent Projects

- Software Developer with fashion and retail startup Real Looker Ltd.
- Principal Data Engineer with [Sky Betting and Gaming](https://skybetcareers.com/about-us)
- Software Developer with content curation startup [Wakelet](https://wakelet.com)

For more information, please download [my CV](PaulBrabbanCV.pdf).

Commit message:

sort out profile pic on services page

src/pages/pages/about/index.md, after:

---
title: Paul Brabban | Tempered Works
layout: page
path: "/services"
---

<img style="float: left; padding: 1em;" src="profile_small.gif">

Alongside software development and data engineering,
I've worked in analytics, marketing, machine learning and cloud computing.
I love solving problems and I’m flexible enough to help you.

I perform contract, consulting or freelance engagements that help you and challenge me.
My experience extends to leading teams, technical architecture and product development.
Whilst I'm primarily a hands-on software developer and data engineer I'm happy taking on broader roles.

Contact me to see how I can help at [paul@tempered.works](mailto:paul@tempered.works).

## Recent Projects

- Research and Development project with [Dunnhumby](https://www.dunnhumby.com/)
- Software Developer with fashion and retail startup Real Looker Ltd.
- Principal Data Engineer with [Sky Betting and Gaming](https://skybetcareers.com/about-us)
- Software Developer with content curation startup [Wakelet](https://wakelet.com)

For more information, please download [my CV](PaulBrabbanCV.pdf).
